♪Only after bloom comes fruit♪
♪Who says glory must fade to the past♪
♪Only through thunder
do you reach the clouds♪
♪Who made you the crown of every peak♪
♪I stand at the center of the stage♪
♪My shadow is pinned against the wall♪
♪Facing the light earns every medal♪
♪Little birds,
save your needless pecking♪
♪The open sky rises high♪
♪When night falls,
the moon begins to shine♪
♪I stand in the heart of these lands♪
♪My shadow bears no crown or robe♪
♪Then I know truth needs no disguise♪
♪The green hills see me as I am♪
♪Like dew, lightning,
and moon on the river♪
♪Showing me exactly who I am♪
=The Lead=
=Episode 39=
I promise.
I'll never make you cry again.
Sleep now.
Marry me.
For real?
(Qinchuan Province Qinqiang Opera Theater)
Stop crowding me.
It feels weird.
Let me breathe.
No way.
You need to hear what
the people say.
- Exactly.
- Right.
Yeah.
Troupe Leader Yi, you have no idea
while you've been away lately,
we realized how important you are.
It was chaos without you.
- Exactly.
- Yeah.
Honestly, all that messy gossip,
no one really bought it, right?
Right. Those rumors look fake.
Anyone with sense wouldn't believe them.
We all believe in you.
- Right.
- Listen.
Focus on rehearsing.
Don't worry about a thing, okay?
As for Chu Jiahe,
she already admitted it to the boss.
Admitted what?
That she made up the rumors.
She said she invented all of it.
She's envied you since childhood.
She can't stand seeing you do well.
She tried every way she could
to pin all that dirt on you.
Don't listen to him.
Only his first line was true.
The rest was all twisted up.
A lot has happened lately.
Let's all learn from it.
Don't jump at every rumor again.
But for now,
our top priority
is getting back on track.
Let's get rehearsals going.
Time won't wait for us.
Right?
Come on, let's start.
- Okay.
- Come on.
Let's rehearse.
Let's hurry up.
Troupe Leader.
Qin'e.
Come here.
I hear you're getting married.
Congratulations.
Liu is a good man.
You can count on him.
Thanks, Troupe Leader.
I have an idea to run by you.
After you're married,
you can't have kids for a few years.
I... I haven't even planned that yet.
By the time you do,
I'll be done for.
Think about a whole troupe,
how hard it is to train actors like you.
Chu Jiahe wants to leave.
So tell me, what about the troupe?
Then we'd have to do all-male opera.
Chu Jiahe wants to leave?
She filed a report. It's in my office.
I haven't approved it yet.
Who is it?
It's me, Yi Qin'e.
Why are you here?
Why not keep singing?
I'm not in your Youth Troupe.
Stay out of it.
Either way, I hope you
finish Da Jiao Zan before you go.
Why would you care?
I know it wasn't you.
No matter how much you hate me,
you'd never do something like that.
How do you know?
If it were you, you
wouldn't have saved me.
Ms. Mi Lan came to see me.
What did she say?
She said,
"Everyone wants to be the lead,
but most people
are just background players.
Once you see yourself as an onlooker,
you'll realize
everything gets a lot easier."
After all this time,
I realized I'm only an onlooker.
Timing, place, and people
all have to line up
to make one the lead.
Why?
Why should timing, place, and people
never be on my side?
Only the leftovers end up with me.
I'm not as good as you?
I don't accept it.
I'll never accept it.
You're just luckier than I am.
Onstage, one may be the lead,
but not always in real life.
Sometimes,
the brighter you shine onstage,
the lower you feel after.
I'd like to feel that loss.
Then sing Da Jiao Zan.
Then do whatever comes next, no regrets.
These past few days...
Rough, huh?
How about you?
People love to talk.
I can't control what they say.
As for this matter,
someone has to take the hit.
If it's not you,
then it's me.
That's just how it goes.
So...
It's settled.
You sing Da Jiao Zan.
I sing Hu Xian Jie.
We'll make some noise together.
(Chang'an; Ningzhou)
Hongbing.
Come on, come on.
Brother-in-law.
Slow down, easy.
Brother-in-law, what's this?
So heavy.
It's all good stuff you can't get here.
- Uncle. Auntie.
- Hongbing.
Why are you still calling us
Uncle and Auntie?
It's important.
I should wait until the wedding.
Then I'll make you both happy.
See how thoughtful Hongbing is?
- Come on.
- Liu Hongbing.
Where's Laidi?
She's rehearsing at the provincial troupe.
I'll take you to the hotel.
Why stay at a hotel?
Laidi and her uncle have places.
We can just stay there.
It's such a small thing.
Just listen to the kid.
I'll listen if it's right.
But not if it costs money.
Put them in the car.
- Here, Mom.
- Mom, stop fussing.
Brother, want some water?
Can this console still play, brother?
- It's great.
- Of course.
Put this cartridge in.
- The TV's off.
- Hongbing.
Turn it on.
- Hongbing, I checked.
- Auntie.
Laidi, Pandi, and I get the big room.
You and your dad take the small room.
Cungen, you and your brother-in-law
can sleep on a floor bed here.
Why sleep on the floor?
Get a room at Beishan Hotel.
That costs money, doesn't it?
Save what we can. Listen to me.
I'm going nowhere.
I'm staying with Hongbing.
Silly.
Fine, I'll sleep on the floor with you.
Hongbing.
Hongbing, this cord is too thin.
For the toilet flush, I...
It snapped with one light tug.
Find a thicker one. I'll replace it.
Uncle, don't bother.
This lousy cord's been bad for ages.
- Well...
- I hate it.
- Use it for now.
- Well...
I'll replace it tomorrow.
Brother-in-law, where should this go?
Sis, what's this?
Medicinal herbs.
Your brother-in-law and I
got them for Laidi.
Thank you, brother-in-law.
Brother-in-law. Sis.
- Wonderful.
- Great.
Hongbing.
- Coming!
- Where are your pillows and quilt?
Brother-in-law, why can't I clear this?
- Brother-in-law!
- Wait a sec.
I'll figure it out myself.
Brother-in-law!
What's so hard about it?
Every level's tough till you beat it.
(Invitation)
Come on, take one.
The wedding banquet's on the 10th.
At Chang'an Restaurant.
We hired a top chef from Guangdong.
Fresh seafood, all you can eat.
Nice.
When Wang Qinsheng got married last year,
there wasn't even a scrap of grease.
Just a whole table of greens.
Wasn't he worried
that he'd be a cuckold?
Director, have a smoke.
Wishing you both happiness!
The voice even cracked.
(Ticket window)
"Da Jiao Zan", half off!
Half-price tickets! Half-price!
Want one?
Half-price!
Got any Hu Xian Jie tickets?
What are you thinking?
That sold out ages ago.
Da Jiao Zan tickets?
Nope.
Not as good as Hu Xian Jie.
♪Marshal's order♪
♪I hit the kid's head♪
You sang great.
You mean it?
But the play isn't really for you.
You're no kitchen maid.
You're Cui Yingying.
You're Princess Shengping.
You'll never suffer hardship.
I heard you're getting married.
Congrats.
Thanks.
Can you make it?
Come to our wedding.
I'm leaving the day after tomorrow.
For Shenzhen.
I won't be back.
Shenzhen...
That's so far away.
I'm going to be the lead in my life.
Yi Qin'e.
Be happy from now on.
We'll both be happy.
That night, after the show,
Chu Jiahe herself
stood on stage for a long time,
thinking of her days on stage,
her joy and sorrow,
and her tears and sweat.
But Chu Jiahe chose to let go.
She understood before Yi Qin'e did
that every show must end someday,
and to bring down your own curtain
is what makes a true star performer.
♪This world♪
♪Has wronged me♪
♪My innocent heart♪
♪All my old kindness has been betrayed♪
♪Bones in hills, my spirit torn♪
♪Heaven's flames undo the divine♪
♪Oh heaven♪
♪Morning dew gleams♪
♪Washing dust, clearing my soul♪
♪Moon by the cave lights ages past♪
♪I thought this world was bright in bloom♪
♪I thought this life was full of joy♪
♪Now lamps dim, and the stars grow faint♪
♪Now my eyes blur, all clarity gone♪
♪This world has lost its rightful order♪
♪Yet it is hard to steel my heart♪
♪So be it, let my heart turn firm♪
♪I rise to heaven to prove my loyal heart♪
♪True in spirit, I rise to heaven♪
♪To prove my loyal heart♪
(Chinese Theatre and Opera Awards)
Bravo!
Sis! Sis! Sis!
Qinqiang opera star Yi Qin'e
has become, since the award began,
its youngest-ever winner.
(Qinqiang Opera Performer Yi Qin'e)
The play's success
(Won Chinese Theatre and Opera Awards)
showed the charm of Qinqiang opera
(Chinese Theatre)
and opened a bold Qinqiang chapter.
I understand how everyone feels.
Qin'e's performance was brilliant.
But let's keep things orderly.
Sign in an orderly line.
What is this?
This lousy photo...
The color is too pale.
Use new ones next time.
Got it.
Don't rush! Don't rush! Don't...
(Eatery)
Ms. Yi Qin'e.
They say drama mirrors life,
so I'd like to ask,
in Hu Xian Jie,
does the critique of life and its despair
reflect your own outlook?
I can't say if it does.
But when I was performing...
Listen. Your sister says it so well.
Quiet. We're watching.
Come on, drink up.
Uncle.
But through this role, you
won the top opera award.
These folks are just drinking.
Not even watching TV.
Brother.
If they sing like Laidi does,
that'd be top tier, right?
I can't say if that's the top.
Look at old Jiusuihong and Wei Changsheng.
They were probably the same.
Uncle.
- Dad.
- Mom, why take their candy?
We're eating pricey barbecue.
What's wrong with a few sweets?
You control everything?
Those sweets aren't worth much.
Have some meat.
What? Am I making you look bad?
Easy, easy.
- Eat this.
- Always eating.
- Eat.
- No.
- Dad, cheers.
- Cheers.
Cheers.
Laidi.
Can't sleep?
Mom, you're still awake?
Your sister snores louder than your dad.
How does Gao Wufu stand it?
Laidi.
The life you have now...
I never even dared to dream of it.
Back in the old days,
it'd be fit for a queen.
I never imagined it either.
Your sister keeps complaining,
saying that back then,
your uncle should've taken her.
She says you stole her luck.
She just doesn't get it.
Even if your uncle had taken her,
she couldn't be where you are today.
What kind of life we get
is up to fate.
Laidi,
but still,
your sister has had it rough too.
Last year, her medicinal herbs business
lost a huge amount of money.
Your sister's life now
is really hard.
If you can help her,
then give her a hand.
And your brother
can't stay in Jiuyangou anymore.
All day, he wants to come to you.
I've held him back for years.
But the way things are going,
I can't stop him.
We'll talk about him later.
Focus on your own life first.
After you're married,
be more diligent.
And be considerate.
Don't trouble Hongbing over everything.
Whether a family can last
mainly depends on the woman.
Kid.
Give me your hand.
Life isn't easy for women.
I don't have much to give you.
I just hope
your life will be sweet.
Good! Good!
Everyone, quiet down, please.
Hongbing.
Give your dad and mom
a bow too.
Dad, Mom.
We bow to you.
Good!
Dad, Mom.
Thank you for giving me
life and raising me.
Don't cry.
No tears on a day like this.
Hongbing, say something!
Dad, Mom.
Now Qin'e is mine to care.
Just rest assured!
Good!
Hongbing, carry your bride!
Let's head home!
Let's go!
Pick her up!
Come on.
Let's go!
(A match made in heaven)
(Double happiness)
Wonderful, wonderful.
The wedding apartment looks beautiful.
- It does?
- It sure does.
I drank too much today.
I'll head back.
Okay, sir. I'll see you out.
No need to see me out.
Let Qin'e walk me out.
She's the bride. I'll share her good luck.
Right, right. Qin'e, go on.
He must have something to say.
- Go on.
- Just downstairs.
- Stay close. Watch your step.
- Okay.
Qin'e, stay close.
Okay. Take care.
Finally, we can breathe.
Qin'e.
I really should congratulate you today.
You've been with the
troupe for three years.
These past years,
I've watched you
become the Little Queen of Qinqiang Opera.
I bet, in the next three years,
your future will still be wide open.
Trust me on that.
So,
there's something I need to say.
Don't think I'm nagging.
I think...
Troupe Leader.
I know.
I'm not having a baby yet.
I'll sing with the troupe
for a few more years.
That's great.
Now I can finally relax.
Reports say this group had long used
the TV station as a cover,
claiming to host
children's singing contests,
and moved across regions
- What?
- and acquired fees by fraud.
The total came to over 300,000 yuan.
The main suspect, Mi,
was taken in at Nanjing.
The case is still under review.
As people's
living standards keep rising,
their demand for cultural entertainment
and child education
is also growing.
- But stay alert.
- Who is that?
Don't fall into
- Mi Lan?
- a trap that costs you all.
That can't be.
I've seen plenty of the lead types.
And even more leading ladies.
Life is short. Anything can happen.
Right now, you need to hold on
to whatever
you can still control.
Make the days ahead count.
Don't see me off. Go back.
Live well.
(Double happiness)
Tonight should have been the happiest
day of Yi Qin'e's life,
but for some reason,
after all the cheering and joy,
she felt a little uneasy.
Afraid Heaven had given her so much
more than she'd ever imagined,
and would quietly plan to
make her return it.
Qin'e...
Look here!
It's made just for you.
Do you like it?
Why'd you do this?
A waste of money.
How can this be a waste?
People say
a star performer needs their own costume.
When I first met you,
you were Mu Guiying.
Then I'll start with Mu Guiying.
Okay.
Take a look.
Later on,
once we save up some money,
I'll get you another set.
Li Huiniang's set.
Yang Paifeng's.
Bai Yunxian's.
Whatever role you sing,
I'll get it for you.
During those days,
Yi Qin'e was truly happy.
Her married life was good.
She didn't even notice
the world outside
had turned upside down.
New trends were flooding in.
Qinqiang opera, passed down for millennia,
suddenly had almost no audience.
As if overnight,
(Qinchuan Province Qinqiang Opera Theater)
shows dwindled like an ebbing tide.
The troupe could pay only half wages.
For the rest, they were on their own.
And she was still lost in her honeymoon.
(Two years later)
Fate doesn't wait for you.
The baby arrived just like that.
The trials meant for Yi Qin'e
had only just begun.
Why give water? What good is that?
Feed him milk.
The book says
not to soothe a crying baby with milk.
Or he'll never get off it.
You can't raise a child by a book.
He's so little. He needs milk.
What kind of mom is this?
Here, here.
How can you
not even calm your baby?
There, there.
Don't cry, baby. Don't cry.
- My baby, don't cry.
- Why is his face so red?
The book says
a red face can be a warning sign.
Stop reading that useless book.
The kid is crying hard.
Of course, the face is red.
From the day we're born,
life is one long struggle.
Don't cry. There, there.
A child wears everyone down.
And marriage begins to crack
in endless crying
and trivial chores.
Laidi.
Look, you're on TV.
Which play is it?
Your mom looks great in it.
Her singing's really good.
Troupe Leader.
Sanyuan.
I was looking for you.
Yeah?
How's Qin'e been lately?
Same as always.
At home, with the kid.
The kid's still little.
He's got the whole family worn out.
Look at these dark circles.
Why'd she have a kid so early?
Right after she got married,
down by her place,
I told her straight up.
"Wait a bit longer. Wait a bit longer."
What was she thinking?
Why'd she have a kid so early?
She never even told me.
Well... that's just how she is.
She's always quiet.
She tells no one a thing.
She has her own ideas.
Just look.
At the height of her glory,
she stepped away.
That kid was meant for it.
She caught Qinqiang opera in its prime,
and missed its decline.
We took Hu Xian Jie south
for those last few shows.
After we came back,
the troupe had lost its heart.
Everyone had seen it for real,
the prosperity down south.
We wondered what we'd been doing all along.
Everyone's heart is unsettled.
I didn't even know what to do.
There's a new term now, right?
Qinqiang opera is a traditional folk culture.
Will things get better later?
I don't care about later.
I only care about right now.
There's one thing right now.
You must get Qin'e back.
If she won't come back to sing,
Qinqiang opera is finished.
I'll talk to her.
I will.
What?
I don't need it.
The troupe still pays 30% wages.
I won't starve.
This is the deposit.
The troupe has booked a show.
It's the provincial Guanzhong Trade Fair.
A real gig, and the pay is good.
500 per show.
Star performers can get extra.
I can't go.
Why not?
The baby isn't weaned yet.
And Hongbing is busy with work.
If I go, Mom can't manage alone.
Take the baby with you.
Your fans have missed you for ages.
Then I really shouldn't go.
Look at me now.
Better they remember me as I was.
Think it over.
You've still got a few days.
Decide for yourself.
Comrades,
over a decade of Reform and Opening-Up,
here in Beishan,
we've made era-defining progress.
Back in 1978,
the county's GDP was just over ten million.
Last year, it topped one hundred million.
This year, we will unite and forge ahead.
It'll be a year of huge progress!
- Good.
Good.
Stand up. Up.
Come on, everyone up. Stand up.
Let's chant the slogan.
Hongbing.
Isn't that slogan a bit much?
If you don't make it big,
how will you get his attention?
All you do is make snide remarks
all day long.
Come on, let's practice together.
United as one!
- Liu Hongbing!
- United...
What are you doing?
Everyone, listen to me.
Just hear me out, okay?
Beishan's district lines have changed.
It will be run by Qinchuan now.
And our administrative office faces cuts.
This wasn't decided on a whim.
So,
please try to understand, okay?
- Try to understand.
- What about us?
We need to make a living!
Let me say something.
If you cut us loose,
what are we supposed to do?
- We need to make a living!
- Exactly!
- Right!
- That's true!
Who said you'd be left with nothing?
The leaders have considered
everyone's livelihood.
So they've set aside funds
for a service-year buyout.
For under 25 years of service,
you get 10,000 yuan outright.
For 30 years of service,
you get 20,000 yuan outright.
It's only that much.
Liu Hongbing!
Liu Hongbing.
If you can't be reasonable,
fine, keep stirring things up.
Then even that 10 or 20 grand is gone.
What will you do?
They'll still do things their way!
- You're leaving?
- That's it?
I'm telling you all,
the tide of the times is here.
Nobody can stand against it!
You can't just leave!
Give us an explanation!
Hongbing, what do we do?
- What now?
- We're with you. Say something.
- Go on.
- What do we do now?
Hongbing, give everyone a call.
- Yeah, Hongbing.
- Say something.
Planned economy.
Market economy.
Streamlining and downsizing.
Laid off. Starting over.
Back then,
big newspaper headlines
and TV slogans
were taking turns to speak and sing.
The tide of the times had arrived.
No one could stand on the shore,
being easy and calm.
Yi Qin'e knew
everyone would be changed.
Sir.
I... I won't take it.
You go.
- Sorry.
- What's your issue?
Mom. Qin'e.
I'm back.
Mom.
Here's the fish.
I told you to buy crucian carp.
This isn't crucian carp.
It won't help with milk.
Isn't it?
The fish seller said it was.
It really isn't?
Eat this first.
I'll buy her some tomorrow.
The baby's here.
- Come here.
- I just calmed him.
Don't make him cry again.
Okay, come here. Daddy's got you.
Daddy's got you.
He doesn't even know crucian carp.
Such a pampered young master.
Who are we raising the kid for?
Had fun with Mommy all day, huh?
Qin'e.
Take him to the hospital tomorrow.
For what?
I just feel
the kid seems a bit off.
What do you mean, "off"?
He cries a lot. That's off?
You won't talk to your dad.
You two are off too?
Why start a fight?
What I mean is
I feel the kid's a bit behind.
Compared with kids his age,
he doesn't talk much.
Who said that?
My kid doesn't need a comparison.
Why care how others are?
Fine, fine.
If you think he's fine, then fine.
Baby,
listen to Mom.
It's okay, it's okay.
- Listen to Mom.
- How's work?
What?
How's work going?
What about work?
Aren't they redeploying and laying off?
They won't lay off
Young Master Liu, okay?
That's good.
- What happened?
- Why did it blow up?
=The Lead=
(Preview)
Chu Jiahe.
Over the years, I've
done every kind of job.
I've been down on my luck.
He had a cerebral hemorrhage.
Now he ended up like this.
Dad.
Uncle, I'm feeling nervous.
Nervous? You've performed on stages
much bigger than this.
People now hire modern
song-and-dance shows
for weddings and funerals.
Who still watches the
old-style Qinqiang opera?
(Black Rose Song and Dance Troupe)
♪When I woke up and turned back♪
♪I wasn't sure where to go♪
♪We met and brushed past♪
♪Your shadow drifted out of sight♪
♪The stove fire blazed in my dream♪
♪Lit up the tracks of pearly tears♪
♪In my dream, water sleeves flew♪
♪Hiding a lifetime of love♪
♪The Qinling Mountains
crossed the stage♪
♪Spring water brewed strong wine♪
♪Sheep moved through the valley♪
♪It felt like a promise
from another life♪
♪When I woke up and turned back♪
♪I wasn't sure where to go♪
♪If I chose again, I'd still roam♪
♪All over this sunlit plateau♪
♪The dream ends; the curtain falls♪
♪Moonlight washes off this stage makeup♪
♪The one in the mirror wears gray hair♪
♪Already sang all my joy and sorrow♪
♪Already shouted across Qinchuan Plain♪